TwentyOne v1.04 Readme
======================

TwentyOne is a card game in which a player tries to get closer to 21 than the house
(or dealer) does.  Typically, twentyone is favorable to the player (if skill is used
in playing the game).  The rules followed by this game are as follows:
- Dealer hits on 16 or less, stays on 17+.
- Splits will play with one card on each one.
- Double can only be done at the start and will hit one card.
- Insurance can be bought when the dealer has an ace showing.
  (costs 25% of bet (1 dollar bets cost nothing))
- If player or dealer hit to 5 cards without going over 21, they
  are the automatic winner.
- If dealer or player has twentyone to start, they are the winner
  (unless insurance can be bought or both have 21).
- Closest to 21 without going over is the winner.

TwentyOne was written using Speedsoft's Sibyl and with images snatched from the public
domain QCard32.DLL and converted to OS/2 bitmaps.  Many thanks to Stephen Murphy and
Daniel Di Bacco for the excellent card images (and for making the QCard DLL public
domain (Freeware)).

Source code is available from my web page at: http://pws.prserv.net/usinet.slack/

Use of the program is at your own risk.

Fix History:
------------
2001-05-18  v1.00  Original release.
2001-05-27  v1.01  Fixed a 'bug' in the bet dialog.
2001-05-28  v1.02  Fixed a 'bug' in the double routine.
2001-05-31  v1.03  Attempt at fixing memory leak/some code cleanup.
2001-06-02  v1.04  More cleanup, added a procedure back removed in previous release.

To Install:
-----------
Unzip into a directory of your choice and start the game.  A icon installation
script (tweninst.cmd) has been included to add the icon to your desktop.  The icon
can then be dragged to any folder of your choosing.

Options:
--------
TwentyOne has many, and varied, options.  The options dialog is accessed by right-
clicking anywhere in the main window, then selecting 'options' from the pop-up
dialog.
General Options include:
- Number of decks: Select one to three decks to play with.  The number of decks,
                   if changed, takes affect with the next shuffle.
                   Default: one.
- Minimum Bet: Minimum amount to bet (in whole amounts only).  Can be from 1 to
               10000.
               Default: 1.
- Maximum Bet: Maximum amount to bet (in whole amounts only).  Can be from minimum
               to 10000.
               Default: 5.
- Initial Bank: Amount of money player is given at the game start or with each
                reset (in whole amounts only).  Can be from minimum bet to 
                100000.
                Default: 100.
- Bet Max: If checked, sets the maximum (or as much money as player has) in the
           bet dialog.  This option is more of an convenience option for those that
           want to bet the max with each hand.  If not checked, the bet dialog is
           seeded with the minimum bet amount.
The card back tab contains a list of card backs available to the game.  The current
card back is selected in the list.  To select a different card back image, just 
select the appropriate image.
Pressing OK saves (and changes) your game options, pressing cancel keeps your
current settings.

To Play:
--------
To start a hand, press the 'play' button.  After entering your bet, cards are dealt,
two to dealer and two to the player.  The first dealer card is face down when 
initially dealt.  If neither have 21 to start, the other buttons become (may
become) enabled.
To get an additional card, press the hit button.  If you go over 21, you lose.
To stand on your cards, press the stay button.  The dealer will then finish out
his hand.
If both of your cards are the same, you can split your hand.  Note, you must have
enough money in your bank to cover the split hand and each hand will get one
card (and only one card).  This is different than some of the rules, but leads to
an easier game.
If you have not taken any hits, you can double your bet (the button is not available
if you have taken a hit.  When selected, you must have enough money in your bank
to cover the double-down.  If you do, you are given one additional card and then the
dealer plays out.  If you go over 21 with the additional card, you lose.
If the dealer has an ace showing, you are given the opportunity to buy insurance.
Insurance costs 25% of your bet (you must have enough money to cover the amount in
your bank) and if the dealer has 21, you will get back 75% of your bet.  If you don't
buy insurance, the hand is played through like normal (even if the dealer has 21).
If you don't have enough money (at the beginning of the hand) to cover the current
minimum bet amount, a prompt will ask you if you wish to reset the game (and give you,
the player) the initial bank again (plus whatever is currently in your bank, if 
anything).
This game is not intended to follow each and every little esoteric rule of 21 that
some may know of, but it tries to be close.  This game is not intended for (nor
designed for) actual betting or gambling.

Known Problems/Issues:
----------------------
- There is a memory leak that cannot be found in the game.  It seems to drain, at
  times, somewhere between 4 bytes and 2K per hand.  Sometimes it does not seem
  to leak memory at all.  But after about 10 minutes of play, expect between 50k
  and 100k to be missing (recovered when the program exits).  Also, probably due
  to the memory leak, after a long session of play, the program takes forever to
  exit.  Hopefully, this leak can be found and plugged...
- Originally a DLL was created to store and retrieve the card images from.
  Unfortunately, using the DLL leads to memory leaks (over and above the memory
  leak already present).  Consequently, TwentyOne links all of the images into the
  exe produced.  This may be rectified in the future.

Contact:
--------
Michael G. Slack (slack@attglobal.net)